let's go
[Music]
good
good morning good afternoon good evening
no matter where you coming from hope you
all are doing well
welcome
back
so excited to have you uh you were truly
and dearly missed uh a week is too long
folks it's too long
i hope you had some fun with the break i
hope you're able to use it however you
need it to use it if you needed that
rest and relaxation i hope you got it if
you're part of the ketchup crew and
you're using it to get caught up with us
live hope you used it and uh
you did a little bit of a mix like me
hope you had some fun i know a lot of
folks are grinding out the code wars i
keep a check on the clan they see what
people are doing some of you all were
willing over the break
what you all do that's the question of
the day the question of day is you do
anything fun
over your break i was sick no
no
good to see you too
sleep how old did ring a lot of people
played elden ring i can see that family
time i like it the 30 hour js class
let's go
all apis all day nice
got a little bit of working out in all
right i see you
bought a house hey congrats birthday
congrats
so many folks were sick i have a theory
about this i always used to get sick
every year on christmas break
every year all throughout college all
throughout like my working life every
year christmas time got sick and i
always thought it was you got engaged
hey congrats shrimp
um i was convinced it's like my body
just like saying all right we're gonna
hold off until you take this break and
then then then you get got
right and so i i was afraid that that
might happen to some folks at the break
uh so if you did get sick
i hope you're feeling better
that's wild
clockwork said uh friend and i got
caught for multiple hours every day what
dro hey congrats on being a dad that's
awesome
hankie's like a mother hey i love it
learn to not get got and watch the wire
that's how you learn it
johnny i got you at the end
with the card
three clients over break
what
three clients are rick that's wild
are we grinding the pokemon league
tonight kinda kinda
first tech convention kubernetes and
graphql that's awesome
this is cool
you're gonna have to give me a moment
here it's like seeing all my friends
again
it's been too long i feel like i feel
like i was in like you know like in
school like you don't talk to your
friends for like a week or so back in
the day
they all know they all went on vacation
or something now we're back
potential first client all right
all right
quit my terrible job well congrats
got two clients
thank you jesus henley on a i don't
think we go on the same line there
ate some fries had a good one
oh island
catching up three clients jeez
ate some dominoes two job offers
that's wild
hey glad you're all back glad to have
you
oh boy
you know what
we're already 2 000 strong whenever we
take a break
we always have a little bit of drop off
and so it's good to see the drop off
we're still above 2k i love to see it i
i have my worries i i don't i hate that
i hate to do breaks because i i know
that when there's a chapter end some
folks peter off but we're still above 2k
baby let's go
i love it
i love it 2 000 i want a thousand devs
that that's my internal goal i haven't
said that out loud but i just said it i
didn't mean to say it but i said it
juggling biohazards hey thank you for
all the gift it subs i appreciate it i
owe you uh a whisper i saw it i'll get
back to you soon
yeah
[Laughter]
i we had a hundred devs that's not
enough i want a thousand
and i'm gonna get me my thousand devs
that's all i gotta say
i want a thousand i'm gonna get i wanted
a hundred i got a hundred now i want a
thousand and i'm gonna get a thousand
you heard you heard i wanted a hundred
what did i do
what did i do when i said i wanted a
hundred what did i do i got me a hundred
now i want a thousand i want a thousand
that means yes you you're here i want
you to get a job this is it's a hundred
deaths it'll always be called a hundred
devs in spirit we gotta keep that spirit
alive
but know that i want a thousand
i want it i can taste it i can smell it
i can feel it i want a thousand
another one exactly
uh we we we've been moving i i don't
think we're close to a thousand yet uh
but we've been moving i don't know if
you all been in that celebrations
channel or if you've been in the
uh twitters
people be getting jobs already and i'm
like
cool
that's neat like
but uh yeah
that's been cool
uh and so i i think the the my goal is
because i get to i get to peek
underneath the hood a little bit i get
to peek on earth a bit one of my one of
my favorite the things i want to do the
thing i want to do at the end of this
cohort is like release all the numbers
like every bit of data that i have i
want to put out there into the world
because i don't think there's enough
data out there i think a lot of boot
camps like hold on to this data they're
kind of like afraid to show it
but uh i want it all out there because
we got some really impressive numbers
right we got some really impressive
numbers and the only other person that
i've ever seen do it like honestly
was
was cs50 their very first cohort they
released it and i think that's really
powerful to be able to see that data and
so
one of the things that i i keep a track
of
is like homework submissions because i
think that's the people that are really
here right we do have some folks that
like we're a public platform we're on
twitch we do have folks that come and uh
and see us
but uh when i look at the data i'm able
to see some interesting things so
very first class
we had what like 7 400 people that
showed up
those those are the tire kickers right
the folks that come along what is this
boot camp thing like what is going on
but
what
yes
booty licker has returned
booty licker hey
how you doing
hope you're doing well it's been a
minute
[Laughter]
oh
i've missed you i really have missed you
i hope you're doing well
good to see you
[Laughter]
that's awesome booty lickers and og
folks they've been around good to see
you
uh i i hope that you all come back and
and you know next we do another cohort
probably gonna happen i love to see when
folks come back it makes my day um
so i was talking about numbers real
quick so
7 400 tire kickers not something i'm
going to hold myself to
first homework
how many people do you think submitted
the first homework
let's throw a guess in there first
homework
a little over 4k
yeah a little over 4k
first homework
second homework
3 500
right 3 500
right so second homework we had about 3
500 people that submit the second
homework so that's kind of like my
that's that's like my starting number
that's what i'm looking at right i'm
looking at that 3 500 as like my
starting number and the fact that we're
still at over 2k
uh
right after a break which is
always we always have people that take a
little while to come back after the
break uh and so
for me this is uh
this is pretty cool and those numbers
actually probably inflate a little bit
because we do have a lot of folks that
follow along at their own pace right so
i i actually kind of think the numbers
we have now are represented the numbers
that have been here since kind of the
beginning we definitely don't like come
on don't let me toot my own hair like we
definitely lost some folks right for
sure but they're not they're not that
bad
it's not that bad
and that makes my day it really does
because i'm always afraid to take breaks
uh when we looked at the last cohort uh
the the breaks that that's always where
folks dropped off and so i wanted to
start off with that because if you are
here
you are doing
what thousands of other people have not
been able to do
right and i say this but i really need
this to be like in the back of your
brain right that you are doing something
that so many other folks set out to do
and they're not able to do it
i don't care how ahead or behind or on
point you think you are
by showing up
you are doing more than hundreds of
thousands of other people that have set
out to do the same thing have been able
to do so i think that's worthwhile
to highlight to celebrate that after a
break
it felt i know the break felt good
i know it felt good
but the show back up they're ready to
carry some more boats and some logs to
keep putting in the work
to go through the trough of sorrow you
you might you might have you might have
been able to like
you were in the swimming pool next to
the trough of sorrow
and you decided to jump back into the
trough of sorrow
that's [__] impressive
there's not that that that that's
that's built different as the kids say
right like
you are built different
for for you to have seen the pain
you know what it is now you know what
the trough of star you know what you're
in for
and so to have an easy out
to be taken out of the trophy sorrow for
a week
right to be taking out a trough star for
a week to feel good have some more free
time to be able to play the video games
to hang out with family more and then to
come back a week later and say screw
that good comfortable feeling
i want to get in the trough of sorrow
that's built different
nobody ever can take that away from you
ever
i don't care for the rest of your life
how things go
you made a decision
to put away the comfort to put away the
things that felt good to put away that
free time to take time away from your
friends your family your loved ones from
your hobbies and your interests and say
i want to be a software engineer
i want to get a job in tech
and i'm going to do what it takes to get
that job
that's huge
because it's really easy to not click on
twitch
it's really easy to just disappear
we don't get got we go get
so i'm glad you're all back i'm super
happy to have you we have a lot of stuff
to get through tonight some some spicy
review we're gonna do a review tonight
but it's gonna be spicy these these
problems the first couple are okay are
we we're gonna keep it pokemon themed
tonight so the the first gym that we're
going into the boulder gym right we're
we're gonna be
they're gonna be a little okay
when we get to that cascade gym it's
gonna get a little bit spice here we
make it to the thunder gym oh boy
it's gonna it's gonna get it's gonna get
up there right so just when i say that
we're getting reviewing but before we
enter the review i needed to say
y'all are built different it takes a lot
to come back from a break and you did it
so i'm happy you're here
all right we got some fun stuff to get
into
i'm gonna jump right into it
i got
you're gonna have to let me get spicy
for a minute though i got i gotta talk
about some stuff to happen
people get big mad
it's every single time i teach people
get big mad
well especially
especially when i talk about resumes
like people get big mad
i got three
emails from people
three
saying that leon
you're contributing to the problem
you're you're leading people astray
oh no
no son i got deets to prove it i've been
doing this longer than you i've gotten
more people into jobs than you i've
gotten more people to learn how to code
than you nah son they say this ain't my
only gig this ain't it i've been in this
game for 10 years
um
so you're gonna have to give me a second
i'm going to get spicy in a second not
right now i gotta i gotta gotta get into
i gotta get comfortable i gotta get
loose
but i i don't i don't respond to those
emails
they're wildin
i get them all the time
because people don't realize
that there's a system in play
and i don't give a [__]
about that system
i'm here to get people
jobs
i don't care about no companies
i don't care about the respect of my
fellow engineers
i could give two shits
what somebody sends to me in an email
i'm here to get people jobs and i'm
[__] good at it
and i always like i always always go
back to 50 cent
i always go back to 50 cent
because i ain't here to play in the
normal system
50 cent has an amazing
an amazing bar that always gets stuck in
my mind and his bars were
listen you got to get in here close
his bars were
i'm just a crook
with a deal
if the record don't sell
i'm gonna rob and steal i don't care
about the system i don't care about
people feeling some type of way about
you calling yourself a software engineer
you are all software engineers you are
all gonna get amazing jobs
and if the records don't sell i'm gonna
do whatever i can to get you a job
if i gotta sing a different song i gotta
sing a different tune if i gotta rob and
steal guess what i'm gonna do it
[__] it
we go get we don't get got so i'm gonna
get spicy i'm gonna get spicy i have to
i have to
because because if i don't every once in
a while i think you might use a little
you might lose a little faith so
give me give me a moment to get spice a
little bit later on but let's let's get
into our stuff we got to get into let me
get loosened up a little bit here
we don't care if they agree they just
need to get out of our way hell
yeah
hell yeah
that's not financial advice y'all it's
not financial advice
people just need to read more books
they don't read books enough anymore
all right
so we're going to talk about what's
coming up
are we going to talk about what's coming
up we're going to talk about
100 dabs and what it's going to look
like over the next couple of weeks
people need to touch more grass
we're gonna review the big four together
we got some spicy review with arrays and
objects we'll be looking at things like
map reduce filter uh things that we
haven't seen in a while
and then if we have time we'll touch on
a little bit of objects but i feel like
this class might go a little bit over
with the the two first reviews
and then we'll probably just end there
all right
before we jump into it i always like to
make sure i can answer some questions
before we get started um
did you finally see batman now that's
streaming i
it's funny because we had a break and i
didn't have time to watch it but i
hopefully yeah i'll hopefully get to it
maybe this weekend
what did i do for the break
um
i
got an analog pocket
and i was playing some pokemon sapphire
that was that was like the thing i did
for myself but it takes like it takes
like five days for my brain to realize
that i'm on a break and it's very hard
to not do work so i really had like a
two to three day break uh but once i did
hit it i was feeling good
i was at coachella i was in coachella
uh what's your opinion on reaching out
to a potential client to be a
subcontractor like you are going to
subcontract out the work i do that all
the time i think it's one of the best
things you can do
did you get an overwatch two beta key i
did not but one of my students told me
they got an extra for me so hopefully
i'll be able to use that
can the u.s hire someone from iran so
there it's the the the way that we hire
folks in the us is really really weird
uh we have an h1b visa process which is
like one of the one of the bigger ways
to bring folks in
that process is scuffed to all bomb all
beyond belief i've gone through it two
or three times with employees it goes to
raffles sometimes where like even if you
have somebody that wants to hire you
there might not be enough opportunity
for you to come in so it's a hard
process um definitely something we'll
talk about more as we get into uh the
actual job hunt which we'll get to in
like two weeks we'll have like full
classes on the hunt and i'll answer all
the questions as best as i know about
getting hired especially from other
countries
can you explain more about the 100 hours
project so we're getting we're almost
there um pretty soon we're going to be
start thinking about a lot of stuff that
we're going to need for the hunt and
part of that is our 100 hours project
it's a project where you think 100 hours
into building something from scratch so
that when you're in interviews you're
actually showing the interviewer a full
project from beginning to end that
you've built
because i tell you folks coming out of
boot camps don't ever have it they don't
ever have someone that's really theirs
that they didn't just follow a tutorial
they didn't just copy it from somebody
else in the boot camp that has something
that's truly your own it's something
that helps you stand out in this process
i have had contacts telling me about
paid internships it's something that
people are taking on at this time i
think it'd be pretty hard to do an
internship and kind of program at the
same time uh if it's a good internship
they're paying you well
that's probably the better gig
if
it has a guaranteed conversion the full
time
i never recommend
apprenticeships or internships that
don't have a guarantee to full time uh
it's just kind of a dead end
and they always have to be paid never no
paid
it's a social media app hard to make in
100 hours we'll do a version of
instagram together across like two
classes so like in six hours and then
part of your
like one of your team projects will be
to build a social media app so you'll do
that in like six hours as well so
once once i'm telling you it seems so
far away
it seems so hard to like right now the
idea of like what the back end can be
seems so distant and large
but it's not that hard once you
understand apis and you understand a
little bit more glue we're going to be
building our own back ends
super quick it's going to be pretty easy
i want to say easy it's definitely
difficult to understand there's a lot to
learn but once you learn it you're a
beast and i want that for you i i like
the moment people like
there's like the the biggest joy of
being an educator
is like seeing that moment when it
clicks in people's brains that they can
build the things that they want to build
right
there's just a moment in all of my
students journeys when they sit down and
they go oh i want to build this and they
like i can see it like i can see like
all the gears they're like holy [__] i
can build it it's like they get like
they get like sucked up and like there's
something in your eyes that just changes
and i can i can see it i can smell it
and it happens for all of my students
and i want that for you and when we get
a little ways into the back end you're
going to feel that way too
and so yeah building apps will always be
hard but it won't be like this nebulous
box that you have no idea how to do it
you at least always be able to get
started and have a concrete way of going
about trying to accomplish the things
that you want to build and so that's
coming soon
and that's why we do the 100 hours
project because that's where you learn
that you can do it
cool
all right let's keep pushing
all right so this week uh we have
so for folks that were that were that
redeem the reviews so
chibi and there's one other person that
reviewed that pulled i think a portfolio
review send me a mod mail please send me
a modmail we can set that up for you so
if you do redeem those channel points
send me a man mail we'll set it up all
right this week we're doing review
tonight and we're doing the beginnings
of object-oriented programming on
thursday so we're getting into all the
weird stuff encapsulation
abstraction all the stuff that we've
been reading about we're gonna put it
into practice give real examples uh my
my favorite gif of all time is well at
least in terms of teaching it's the
cardi the cardi b but like why like but
why is i think so much of stuff is never
taught about like why you would actually
want to use it so my promise to you as
we go through object-oriented
programming you'll know why certain
things are used why it's a best practice
and so that'll be on thursday that we'll
start that
welcome mighty you found the right place
the exclamation point 100 devs to learn
more all right
next week we're going to put into
practice the stuff we learn on thursday
and then we're going gonna learn async
await and promises
async await and promises are pretty much
like the last really big thing we need
to understand
about javascript before we move to the
back end once we understand the oop and
async await and promises we're ready for
the back end and then we're going to
move right into the back end so
uh this week review op next week oop
async await promises and then the back
end
is this a promise you'll have to wait
and see
all right
you know squidward can throw it back
mm-hmm
could we got the moves for sure
easy
all right if you haven't checked in
please go ahead and check in uh it's how
we do attendance
and it's also how more folks throw how
more folks find us uh so they don't have
to pay obscene amounts of money to do a
boot camp they can learn it all for free
don't delay check in today please
cool
uh we were on a break
just so you know we were on a break
which meant that i took a break too
uh squidward tina
hold on paul
paul
this is a poll worthy question
all right there we go
we have a poll just to confirm
uh squidward or tina
just you know if you know you know
all right
so it was a break
and so
the
this is for who who's who writes the
baddest code that's what we need this is
this is this is for going forward
who who writes the bad code for us this
is this is an important feature of our
boot camp
all right
uh it was a break so i was on break too
which means i'm catching up
and so i got through pretty much all of
the mod mails
that were kind of like super urgent i'll
be able to catch up with the rest of the
mod mails today and tomorrow
and then
i've gotten through pretty much tina
wins it all right tina tina wins that
was easy
um
we know they use tina going forward
thank you
very important 65
all right
i've been way too long this is this is
this is what happens
this is what happens when i'm not
allowed outside the house
all right
cool
uh so i got through all the ask leon uh
as a big reminder
right as a big reminder please
don't send me dms
don't send me dms i don't see dms i
don't read them there's too many my dms
are open
uh discord is like a big platform for me
in terms of like other discords like
there's some too many people reach out
to in dms and and i won't see it however
if you post in the ask leon channel
you will get an answer from me
or one of our mods if it's something
that's already been asked a bunch of
times or if it's something that they
that they can help answer as well so if
you need something
a question put it and ask leon
if for some reason it has too much
personal detail send a mod mail
that way those are the two major
channels that i i check all the time you
will get a response from me uh if you
use mod mail or the ask leon definitely
use askleon first that's the easiest for
me to get through i try to get through
it every couple of days and then mod
mail if it has too much sensitive
information dms they don't get they
don't get seen
no
cool
all righty
he's gonna get a little funky
i am going to start testing some stuff
in terms of my setup
uh i want to
uh i want to start having some other
folks come live with us
uh
and so we're gonna start testing like
having other people here on stream with
us and so it's gonna get a little funky
you're gonna hear me testing some stuff
feedback is always welcome if if the
music is weird or my sound is weird let
me know because i am trying to change a
lot of stuff um just just know that it
might get a little funky as we kind of
go over the next couple of days
um
oh yeah so for for the
[Music]
the
merch winners and like the raffle
winners uh you should have gotten an a
like a message from me on as a whisper
or the pokemon card winners i just saw
your message i'm not sure if i got them
but by end of day tomorrow
everyone should have gotten at least an
initial whisper from me and then stuff's
gonna start going out this week so i
took last week to kind of get everything
packaged up and like all the laptops and
everything from best buy and so things
are ready to go out so probably this
week it'll go out it always takes me a
little while to get everything so sorry
for the delay but you should um
you should hear from me this week i'm
going to make sure i get to everyone by
end today tomorrow
cool
all right
everybody said no networking until may
may is getting up close
i best buy myself i buy the
i got got
i buy the microsoft laptops from best
buy
uh
because it's just easier to get them
because they're always in stock
yeah i guess that's i'm okay i think
they care right i don't know that's
where i get them though
yeah
microcenter's too far
all right no not working until may
uh client deadline
deadline may 5th and remember
if you
are not able to get a client there are
two alternatives you may
volunteer for a grassroots organization
still do the same process still please
you need to get the proposal the
contract and they're signing on the line
to be the best reference customer that
you've ever had
and then you also could contribute to
free software open source
first timers only is an amazing resource
right an amazing resource
an amazing resource
to get your first contribution
we have to get one of these three things
done
if you are contributing or participating
in this
experience you have to get a client you
have to volunteer or you have to
contribute to free software there's
really no if ends or buts around this
this is what's going to help us stand
out and actually live up to the things
that we claim
right we claim a lot here right and
these are one of the things that we need
to be able to claim the things that we
claim
all right
uh youtube is slowly getting caught up
i've edited everything and so you'll see
youtube go up um today thursday saturday
so we'll be caught up soon on youtube
and if you haven't subscribed to the
newsletter i share cool stuff in the
newsletter
more frequently than i do on discord and
going forward there's some goodies
that'll be coming up in the newsletter
that you don't want to miss out on
[Music]
just by typing in newsletter you don't
actually join the newsletter you got to
click the link to sign up for the
newsletter
so just just so you know
we're 13 000 plus strong on the
newsletter
13 000 plus strong
and our open rates are absurd
our open rates are absurd like i want
i'm like when i say at the end of the
cohort i'm putting all the data out
there i'm putting all the data out there
like i'm going to i'm going to give you
right now
we have
thirteen thousand four hundred and fifty
five
uh folks signed up for the newsletter
our last email had a 50 open rate the
one before that had a 52 open rate 48 53
56 48
ain't nobody else in the game doing this
folks
that's wild
that's wild i was talking to to
microsoft
and uh microsoft said it's the the best
they've ever seen
right like literally hands down the best
they've ever seen their roi was off the
charts y'all showed out hard and we're
i can't share anything yet
but we're cooking up some stuff that's
going to be wild like never before seen
there they they see the power of this
community and they're like what can we
do like how can we how can we how can we
show up how can we support
and what can we do to like
keep the train going and so they're
coming to the table we're talking some
wild ideas folks like
really like i know i kind of ham it up
sometimes i'm not hamming it up right
now it's it's about to get
about to get i don't know in these
streets
bill gates give us toasters
all right uh discord we uh a big update
for discord is a lot of folks have asked
recently
we have a lot of kind of affinity groups
and some specialized channels um but one
question i kind of always get a lot is
hey how come there's no lgbtq plus like
channel
we do have the study community which is
new
um but last cohort we created that
channel and the folks that were in the
channel
voted to make it private and so we've
had it there since the beginning right
but it's always been private and so what
we're going to do is we're going to
archive that channel so it'll always be
there for those folks and we're going to
create a public one um that anyone can
participate in because i really hate
when people come to discord and they
don't see that space for them and so um
i'm what that's what we're gonna do
we're gonna we're gonna sunset the other
one uh that was private and make a
public one because the study community
is already kind of public you had to
like opt into it but there will be that
channel that we will see public um so
that way when folks come to our
community they know that this is a space
for them um and it's not gonna be
private anymore so that'll that'll be
happening this week so you'll see that
open up i just wanted to say it on
stream before i did it because it might
be confusing for some folks that are in
the private channel
cool
and then we're eventually going to do
some discords updates we have a lot of
channels people have been requesting
there are some channels that people
really aren't using or not really using
appropriately so we always are tweaking
right uh shout out to the mods we have
the best moderators on planet earth for
keeping discord that is 30 000 plus
people strong now
30 000 plus people strong uh i can't
tell you the stuff that the mods have to
do to keep that all running we have an
amazing community
but when it's that big it's that public
we get we get some
we get some some folks that want to come
in and while around and we we we don't
let that happen
uh and so if something ever does happen
realize that there's 30 000 plus people
just tell myself send a mod mail um so
that we can help right
cool
also uh nobody wants to date you just
since we're here you give me a little
time this is this is that we're back
from a break uh nobody wants to date you
don't message people because you think
they're cute like [__] off like that's
that's not that's not this space
um
as soon as we find out you're banned
like you're never coming back like
it's done so uh so please like come on
don't be that person
i don't know why it happens right and
it's not it's not like something that's
like rampant but it happens enough to
where i have to say it uh and so if
somebody make you feel uncomfortable let
us know on mod mail we'll handle it uh
there's no place for that this is this
is strictly for learning how to code i
don't care how cute you think you are
other people are this is not a dating
channel
alrighty ah we are going to do a live
crafting your story class on friday
um
we did the resume class not because i
want your resume locked down it's
because i need you to start thinking
about some really key bits of
information that are gonna make up your
story
right and so that resume class was not
supposed to be the end-all be-all of a
resume it was just to get us started
thinking about our experience and how we
phrase our experience how we how we talk
about our experience so that we can
start percolating those ideas in our
mind
now the extension of that is your story
it's the reason why
you are
it's the reason why you're showing up in
that interview
and how everything you've experienced in
your past has led up to this moment as
being your moment to shine right and so
a lot of folks have a really hard time
connecting their past self to their
present self in terms of being a
software engineer and so we're going to
practice crafting this live and i like
to do it live
because what i do is i'm just going to
bring people up we're going to do this
on discord i'm going to bring people up
onto the discord stage you're going to
give me your background and then we're
going to craft your story live and we're
going to do quite a few of them so you
can start to see
how we can massage things
push things around
so that we can um
make it better will it be recorded i'm
going to try
we have not recorded a discord stage yet
so i'm going to
install a bot
that hopefully records it i can't make
any promises
we're gonna try it but it might glitch
don't worry we're gonna do this another
time as well so we're gonna test
hopefully it'll record but if it doesn't
we'll do another round of it don't worry
um
but that's the idea so come on friday if
you want live crafting your story i
think it's a really important part of uh
program uh because it really does help
you
to start thinking about why you're
special you're amazing your experience i
don't matter i don't care what it is can
be massaged into the way that makes you
a phenomenal candidate for pretty much
any job
it's about seeing your value and
articulating in a way that the person
across from you sees it as well
cool
kind of dev we're gonna at the bot that
people sent me should do it so i think
we should be okay
all right
office hours on sunday we're going hard
on office hours this sunday we got a lot
of stuff to kind of go into some i want
to cover some some
harder topics i want to go deep into git
uh so we didn't really do our get bowl
so we're gonna do our git bowl we're
gonna spend a lot of time on git github
um
walking through pushing stuff getting
more comfortable with all that
so office hours will be at minimum like
the normal three hours uh we're not
gonna do it it's not gonna be nine hours
once we get all the way through
javascript we'll do another big review
class but i think there's a lot of stuff
that we have to review right now
that doesn't make sense in like a longer
review format like git github and all
that stuff
but once we get all the way through
javascript we'll probably do a longer
review
probably like five hours at least
cool
all right
now
it starts to come up
leon we're almost halfway through
will this really be enough for a job
yes
it will be
ask me how i know
because we got hundreds of folks jobs
through this exact program last cohort
i've been doing this for 10 years
10 years i've been in this game
i've helped thousands of people learn
how to code i've helped hundreds of
folks get jobs as software engineers
the stuff i give you
is not something that i've just made up
it's something that i've tested battle
test it
battle test it
right
i [__] up everything
me me eight nine years ago i'm sorry to
those students i [__] it up
but me now i've learned some things
i've learned some things
and i'm trying to distill all the things
i've learned
into what i am telling you
and i've always said from the beginning
i'm going to show you how to play the
game
it's up to you if you want to play it
i'm playing a game
at the end of this game the folks that
play it with me get a job
that's it
i don't care about anything else
the reason why i make up wake up in the
morning is to get folks jobs
the reason why i go to work every day is
to give give folks jobs the reason why i
stream for almost 400 hours last year
because i want to get folks jobs that's
all i do all i care about
i don't care about companies i don't
care about software engineers that went
to traditional route and they feel bad
about themselves that want to be
gatekeepers to this industry they can go
[__] themselves i really
don't
care
now
my methods
aren't the scrupulous
i'm not going to say that i am the most
ethical person has ever walked this land
because there is a system in place
and i am saying [__] that system
yes i realize that there are structures
in place
i don't agree with those structures
i fundamentally want to burn those
structures to the ground
if i'm standing in the ashes
with my lighter and everything's in
flames but all my folks have jobs i'm
happy
and if you can't see
that there's a system that you've bought
into that you're playing into that
you're leading folks through without
thinking about it you're part of the
problem it's not me
it's you
i got a couple big things that i think
about every single day
a very famous
aboriginal activist has a famous saying
i it's literally on my wall i have three
sayings on my wall this is one of them
one of the sayings is
if you've come here to help me
you are wasting your time
but if you've come because your
liberation is bound up with mine
then let us work together
let's say it one more time i'm actually
i'm gonna i'm gonna
look at my wall and read it you come
here to help me you're wasting your time
but if you have come here because your
liberation is bound up with mine then
let us work together
i'm not here to [__] help
i hate that word i'm not here to help
that's not me
i'm here
because there's a system that's [__]
up
and i see a way to punch through it
and get folks that are hurting
jobs
we started this because of the pandemic
i started my actual work because at the
end of the day i care about getting
black and brown folks jobs
that's that's what i wake up every day
trying to do realizing there's a system
that created a 30 unemployment rate in
our communities of color
that before the pandemic had a
double-digit
double [__] digit unemployment rate
in our communities of color
in the second largest tech economy in
the world
let me let me say one more time i was in
boston we had the second largest tech
economy outside the valley yet we had
double digit unemployment rates in our
communities of color how do we exist in
the second largest tech economy
that have double-digit unemployment
rates because there's a [__] system
and it's broken
so i don't care
about you gatekeeping
calling somebody a software engineer
i don't care if you don't understand my
methods because you haven't read any
books on pedagogy that's not
contributing to that system
i don't give a [__]
i'm gonna do things
i'm gonna move in ways
that are slick
that are
smooth
and i'm gonna show you how to do it too
because at the end of the day i'm trying
to get folks through hurdles and systems
that push against us
now i don't care who you are where you
come from
the system's going against you if you're
a non-traditional learner if you do not
have a four-year cs degree the system
doesn't like you
so we're gonna push
we're gonna do things that make us
better
than those other candidates
so we're breaking a system but we're
better than the candidates that that
system produces
everyone that comes out of 100 devs will
have a paid client have volunteered with
an organization who have contributed to
free software will have a 100 hours
project while worked in teams will have
contributed to an agile process will
have a portfolio a linkedin a crafted
story all these things that their
counterparts coming out of four-year
degree programs or other boot camps
won't have
they won't
so i'm going to read an email
uh i i'll never share names that's not
what we do around here
i i have no i have no no reason to do
that um if you know who this per for
some real reason you know who this
person is you had a coffee chat you saw
them
on twit on twitter
this is not
don't ever send hate somebody's way
don't even talk to them seriously this
is this is not this is not what we do
but i want to read this to you because i
want to answer this person i know they
watch the streams i want to answer you
through i'm not going to ever answer
your email because we're just not we're
just not there
we're just not there
we're built different you're not it's
okay let me tell you how you [__] up
all right let's read this
and the only reason i read it is because
i get i get like one of these a week
i get like one a week and i think it's
important for you to understand
the the things that i'm thinking through
right the things that i'm thinking
through
um because
it helps you understand
why we do the things that we do
here together
all right
all right first first thing here first
thing
you ready hold on let me get i'm gonna
go to
chat up here with me
suggesting that a hundred devs learners
are software engineers
at 100 devs is very misleading
those who will follow your advice might
pass the first screening but have a
significant chance of being caught lying
in the second
and will feel terrible about themselves
if they get caught
that's why we do 60 interviews
who cares
we understand every single person here
understands we might get got on one
but we ain't getting got
on 60.
we might get got on one or two
but we ain't getting got on 60
and
that's avoiding your whole idea
that these individuals are not software
engineers
you are
and you are software engineers at 100
devs
you show up
you go through a training program
you get real clients
you you help real people build real code
every single person that graduates that
has gone through 100 devs has at 100
devs worked with real clients gotten
real work done have gotten paid
and just because you haven't figured
that out
doesn't mean people are gonna get caught
some people might not like it
somebody some folks might like not like
the idea of what we do
that's okay
hundreds of other companies that i've
worked personally with
don't care
or they won't ever ever
even
think about it
you are all software engineers you have
all written great code
you have all written great code you have
all gotten paid clients you will have
all gotten
volunteer clients you have contributed
to free software and you will have done
it
while you've been with 100 devs
i don't get that
i don't get it
next
next it goes on
it goes on
it goes on and it just gets me because
this is this is like this is one a week
it's one a week if it was just if it was
just people just don't get that they're
contributing to a system that is broken
that is oppressive that keeps people in
unfortunate situations and they can't
they can't even see it
even though they type it out they can't
see it all right next
the other issue i have with your
approach
is that you have no real rigorous
process to evaluate that your students
have indeed acquired the skills
i don't believe students work as graded
for example or that there is a pass fail
mechanism to move forward or relearn
things
therefore i do not could you imagine
writing this email
therefore i do not think you can justify
someone who is employed as a software
engineer hundred does has indeed
inquired the skills and is ready for
their first job
of a set of interviews contrary to what
you're suggesting on stream
let me let me let me say that's very
very clear
something that i believe
in my core of my being
at the very core of my being
the oppressed
or just as capable
of the oppressors
let me say it one more time
the oppressed
are just as capable as the oppressors
if you cannot see that there's nothing i
can do to convey my system of teaching
to you
there's nothing i can do that'll help
you understand if you don't believe that
fact
because
what happens when you
institute things that time and time
again have been shown to introduce
racial bias like testing
is what you do is you say i
am the person that can judge you and
what you are able to do
[__]
that
each and every single one of you is
smart enough
capable enough to know whether or not
your application does what it's supposed
to do
every single one of you knows whether or
not
your site
looks like the site that i gave you to
build
i am not the arbiter of your truth i am
not the arbiter of your worth my grade
means absolutely [__] [__]
because each and every single one of you
can determine
if you've succeeded or not
and to think that folks are incapable of
self-evaluation
to think that people are incapable of
understanding if they have done good or
bad is just out
of my mind
wild
wild to me
if one person's freedom
is dependent on another person's choice
we can never be equals
if one person's freedom is dependent on
another person's choice we can never be
equals a lot of this pedagogy comes from
a book called pedagogy of the oppressed
definitely you need if you're if you're
watching this you need to read that book
each and every single one of you are
capable of determining how well you have
done how well you are doing and you can
reach out when you need clarifying
points or questions
right
on our discord
i looked i wouldn't come here and talk
wild i looked in all of our help
channels folks get help
sometimes there's a 50 60
message thread and sometimes you gotta
ask more than once but you'll get help
code quality does not matter right now
it just doesn't matter this early in the
game
you're gonna learn so much more by
building breaking and doing and at the
end of the day
you can evaluate yourself you don't need
my rubber stamp of approval
so
let's let's let's read the end here
and then we'll move on we'll move on
we'll take our break
i have admired your approach to solving
the problem of misrepresentation in tech
and the ingenuity of your model and
methods but with this stream your
initiative flips into being part of the
problem instead of the solution
nasan
the funny thing is you thought i was
contributing to the problem
you are the problem
and the fact that you don't see that
that's a little scary
now i'm not going to give any context or
anything around this but i just want you
to to see that and to see the things
that come our way to see the system that
doesn't want us to go out here and get
they want us to get got
they want us to get got but we don't get
got
we go out and get
and so
the fact that you showed up here
the fact that you put in the work day
after day the fact that you come and
write code
get paid clients write code for
grassroots organizations contribute to
free software
the fact that you will have an
understanding of the tools the methods
the technologies that underlie your code
that you will be well versed in the
efficiency of your code in both space
time that you will understand the core
algorithms and data structures behind
the things that you write that you will
have projects you have built from
scratch from beginning to end that
you've sunk hundreds of hours into that
is what makes you a software engineer
not what i say
not what some random ass person on the
internet says not what somebody on
twitter says at the end of the day
this is your choice you make it you
don't have to listen to me in fact if
you leave now you never look at my face
again that's okay i'm i'm happy with
that i'm okay i'm not happy with it i'm
okay with it
i am not the arbiter of your success
i am not the person whose decision
determines your freedom and the ability
to do things what you want to do in life
you are a [__] software engineer we
don't get got we go get
so
with that
we take a break
we take our break
and when we come back we show them how
wrong they are
we show them how wrong they are we're
going to write some phenomenal code
we're going to get some good review in
we're going to put in that work
we're going to put in that work you're
already software engineers you don't
need to prove it to nobody but we're
going to show them they're going to see
we're going to see the [__] that we can
do that other folks can't do folks
coming out of four-year programs folks
coming out of the boot camps the [__]
that they can't do because they don't
got it in them we're built different
we really are
all right folks let's go ahead and take
our break if you're new around here we
like to be healthy we take five minute
breaks to the top of the hour
we take five minute breaks the top of
the hour uh if you're able if you're
able
get up move around hydrate uh for folks
that aren't able to get up if you're
able to get some stretches in your hand
if you're still able to let your eyes
look somewhere it's not the screen try
that please it really does make this
marathon of learning how to code a
little bit smoother let me put the timer
here
lots of good review to get into
seeing five
okay i'm gonna run ads so that people
don't get them when they join
[Music]
y'all spitting in this chat
those who embody the problem will see a
solution as a problem
ours
all right folks come on back come on
back hope you had a good break
all righty
how's bob still smiling with the man you
scarf on the season a
all right folks come on back
jason derulo hey
thanks for the gift of sauce i
appreciate you being here i hope you're
doing well
i don't know jason derula can we mention
what's coming up soon
we we have it coming up on the books
we're getting it on the books hopefully
soon
yeah
all right so
one of our next friday we're friends
will be jason derulo talking us through
their entire journey into learning how
to code uh it it's a it's a it's an
amazing journey story i think you're
gonna learn so much from it uh so one of
our next friday with friends coming up
very very soon uh will be uh with chase
under rulo
all right folks
uh real quick
real quick
just real quick
you're here you're here at 100 devs
who's gotten a paid client
or worked for a volunteer client or has
contributed to free software you just
put a a yes in chat for me please
just put it just put it a a yes or
something come on now
come on now
we don't get got
we go
don't stop
it don't stop i'll take the kind of i'll
take those
hey it don't don't stop i don't know
what the heck you're talking about it
don't stop
kc minus hey they've been 10 gifted subs
that's wild yeah thank you everybody for
the subs uh thank you everybody for the
the the twitch primes a lot of primes
today i appreciate it thank you
everybody
um
we're getting ready to oh so we have a
big announcement next week it's not this
announcement um but i am ready to
i'm ready to announce how much we raised
for
uh rc last year um because i did my
taxes so i said i had to wait till we
did all that to figure it all out
um
show the music here
uh and so
i'm gonna share all the data so you can
actually it's not gonna be from me
you'll see it and then you'll have like
the receipts of me sending it to rc
but all of the
uh all the subs all the bits anything
that comes from twitch that goes to rc
at the beginning of the year we already
sent them what was it
over three grand at the beginning of the
year and so we're about to send a little
bit more than that
for this past year yeah
so thank you so much it really does mean
a lot um the the subs the especially
like like the all the stuff was the
primes all that goes directly into our
emergency fund and so when folks need
mental health support they can't afford
a doctor or a psychiatrist or medication
which is ridonkulous sometimes
it really does come out of that and we
had no emergency fund like we ran out
and so it's definitely been a big help
so i appreciate y'all
you know
all right
uh we have a big announcement next week
like i'm super hyped for this
announcement it's gonna be a really big
announcement so i don't want to spill
too much we're gonna have a lot of stuff
to go over next week um we're gonna
share how much we we raised for rc in
the last year uh we're gonna announce
something pretty big uh so next week
just not keep that in the back your
brain big big things big things
all right let's get our review in
we got some some pokemon badges to earn
here we gotta get uh
get a little spicy with this review
so we're gonna go through the review if
you're new here we always like to do
some space repetition some active recall
and things that we've learned today's a
great class if you're just joining us or
just catching up we have a lot of folks
from the ketchup crew that are joining
us live for the first time uh if you're
part of the ketchup crew could just do
like cc
uh in chat for me real quick just so i
can see that you're here or if you were
part of the ketchup crew and now you're
live
look at this folks look at the folks
that are able to take the the break
be able to get part of the ketchup crew
to be able to join us live and so uh we
always like that when we come back from
break to do a little bit of review i'm
always gonna include review because it's
attempted to how as adults we learn
but this is huge to see hey shout out to
all the ccers all the ketchup crew good
to see you glad that you're here with us
live hope the break helps you catch up a
little bit more
all right it just goes on and on i love
it all right chat what's a program
what's it what's a program chat
yeah
i'm proud of y'all too a lot of folks
were saying they're proud of the ccs
it's it's it's hard to be part of the
ketchup crew we're not gonna lie right
like it's hard to to to have that that
that muscle to to go at it
uh
and to know that you're catching up huge
big ups
very proud of y'all for sure i'll echo
that yeah program instead of
instructions
beautiful
and
the act of
writing those instructions in a language
the computer can understand is a
programming
well
the programming language we're using is
javascript we love javascript because it
is one language that we can use across
our entire front end and back end so it
makes learning how to build full stack
web applications quicker it's super in
demand and it's something that we can
pick up together to build whatever it is
that we want to build in terms of web
development
all right talk about the big four the
variables the functions the loops the
conditionals
we have a variable a variable enables us
to do what what does the variable enable
us to do
what does a variable enable us to do
yeah store stuff store information it's
a bucket holding some values exactly it
was just to store stuff into memory that
we can use later on uh creating that
space in memory is called declaration
giving that space and memory of value is
called assignment we can do both
declaration and assignment at the same
time let's go we also have conditionals
which we can check to see if something
is true if something is true we do
what's inside the curly braces if it
if the condition is not true we can move
on to an elsif which again will check to
see if something is true if it is true
then we do what's inside the curly
braces if all of our ifs and else ifs
are not true the else will auto
magically run
right it will automagically run
cool
we can also do multiple conditions where
we
[Laughter]
so many people just one bingo you can do
exclamation point bingo uh here in chat
that'll give you the bingo card for the
day uh made by our lovely alumni
dab the bolacal and cross uh
both of which are now gainfully employed
uh dab was also og member of the stream
team shout out to the stream team
holding it down
mine wolf wow
wells rufio wow
some bangers if you haven't looked
through their vods and we got we got
another folks coming soon we got another
person coming soon folks i'm really
excited we're going to announce it this
week the next person the stream team all
right we can do multiple conditions
where both conditions must both sides of
the double ampersand must be true so if
name is leon and status equals ballen
we can also do or right where we can say
if the day is saturday or it's sunday
it's just as long as one of those is
true we do what's inside the curly
braces
mega cringe
you're new around these parts huh
uh functions what are functions
chat what are functions
yeah there are sets of instructions oh i
love that reusable sets of instructions
exactly
sets of instructions that we can reuse
ideally like once we get like our
once we get into it really doing one
action as a best practice and they kind
of form the building blocks of our
programs the things that we can reuse
over and over again to do the same sets
of instructions
our functions have a function
declaration and a function call
your function will not run until you
call it and when you call it you pass in
your argument so
you call
mom to argue i have a healthy
relationship with my mother i don't call
to argue but when you call you pass in
your arguments those arguments
find themselves
into the parameters let's look at an
example here
yeah
your pad wasn't on one second
there we go so here we have our function
declaration of yell
and we have the call here we have the
argument of hello that maps into the
parameter of word wherever i see word
it is string hello
cool
chat what are loops what are loops what
are loops what are loops
yeah they just needed us to repeat some
action multiple times uh so we can
repeat something over and over again
multiple times we saw a lot of different
loops so far for a while we even saw
some that attached to arrays like for
each map etc
cool
we have our traditional for loop here
where we set up our increment we say
when that increment should stop like
when we should stop doing our loop and
how much that increment should change
each iteration so this would be starting
at one going as long as one is less than
five and each time we go up by one so we
do one two three four we'd add up to one
to five since five is not less than five
we would stop and we would not continue
this for loop if you're new here we're
going a little bit faster this we have
full classes on all this material if you
want all the past classes
just join our discord i station point
discord it'll give you access to
everything once you agree to the rules
there's a follow-on materials channel
you can go straight to that pin post
it'll bring you all the way up to the
first
assignment and you can also join the
catch-up crew
to kind of work through this material at
your own pace as well
alrighty
let's get
our boulder badge uh so we have some
starter code here once again the starter
code is on discord if you need it i
haven't already got it we have this
lovely boulder badge here i'm going to
open up the javascript i'm going to open
up the index.html
boom
i have our boulder badge here
and uh if we look in this javascript
file we got some things to do here like
i said there this one's okay we're gonna
get a little bit spicier as we go on so
there's definitely stuff for everyone
here to learn and like i said
always say
as much as you can done in the time
allotted
and then we'll go over it together i'm
gonna put eight minutes on the clock for
this one a little bit more than we
normally do
but there's a lot here
so take your eight minutes
try and get as much done as you can and
then we're gonna go over it all together
time to get your fingers on the keyboard
folks this is this is where we go to
work
right put in the work
try your best
if things don't make sense give it the
old google
and then we'll be back in eight minutes
to go over it together
go for it
looks like code wars
abdom's added two minutes to the timer
we'll make this a 10 minute timer then
there we go
got 10 minutes folks
[Music]
thank you hebdoms
i'll getting too many channel points we
gotta we gotta we gotta switch up some
of these these costs
just all caps dull down i wouldn't
loving the pokemon team this week can
you figure out what i did during break
thank you sudo
katya a there you go
cool dude i'm really into it i've been
playing around with it a lot
no five hey thank you for the gifted
subs
what happens if you run out of pokemon
cards not gonna happen
the knock is just a
it's a
something you can redeem for i think
it's like 20k channel points
i think that's the first time somebody's
redeemed that this cohort
good luck with the amazon interview
uh
ah so some folks are seeing that that
exactly that code wars grind is paying
off right now
uh jace
jason if you're cool yeah
if you want us to give away on stream
send me a mod mail we can figure it out
that'd be cool to do on stream
dakota simba's doing well they're on
like a really specialized diet other
than that they're doing fine
you got this uh
you want to make sure that you've like
done like the amazon specific questions
and uh send me a mod mail just so i can
be in touch
will there be another break during boot
camp yeah we're gonna have a few of them
we're gonna have a break in june
um for for a little bit just so that
folks can actually start working on a
project and then we'll have another
break towards the end of program but
it's really it's not really like a full
break it's just so you have time to work
on your projects
that's awesome blender
oh you got some folks coming in dunzo's
already what
get out of here
spending your free time on a dnd app
minimal that's awesome
uh p it's not a test we don't do tests
around these parts now this these are
coding like code alongs so we take
breaks where you write some code based
on the things that we just learned then
we go over it all together
tower if that's what you're happy with
definitely count to my book
how can we assess how long a project
would take
um
you can try and break it down into
smaller parts and think about each part
and how long that would take you
often kind of just talking through it
with another engineer can be a good way
if you've never built something similar
i often will talk to other engineers if
it's something completely new
if i've never done it before i'll say
i'll get a better time estimate i'll do
that and then keeping track of like your
own i don't want to say velocity but
keeping track of your own like how long
it takes you to complete stuff over time
will give you a better estimate of how
long it's going to take you to do stuff
in the future
drink we're we're almost halfway through
we're doing like 60 classes and we're on
class 30 right now to a week sorry
around class 29 to a week
i can't see your name because it's too
dark let's see oh multi hey wow congrats
good luck
we'll go over test towards the end yeah
uh which you can just put them on there
and the folks asked you can go deeper
no idea tower no idea
talon if you're still struggling have
you done every single thing that was in
our list
we had that full class on it some folks
try one or two but they don't do all of
them do all of them and then do them all
again like repost make sure you do it
multiple times
um
it's hard it's a lot of work doesn't
come easy
have i blasted through more than 208
cues on code words for the break that's
wild congrats
really one they're pretty public about
what they look for
um so post maybe an ask ask leon and i
can i can share what i know
how to hear max
all right little less than two minutes
folks
dig deep remember go as far as you can
we're gonna go over it all together
also remember you can always just mute
me
you don't have to listen to me or the
music you can just mute me and then come
back when you see the timers up that's
why i leave it up
hey glad to see some duns coming in
has been amazing hey there there's a
hump to code wars right like once you
get over the the hump of like how cold
wars works understanding that you're not
always gonna be able to get the answer
that you're not always gonna understand
what the heck they're talking about like
once you get past that and you're able
to spend more time on the analysis you
start to build up it becomes a little
bit easier a little bit easier and then
you hit your flow pretty dope
dart i said what is your idea of an
analysis on a problem you don't
understand at this stage
just look at the solution never spend
more than 20 minutes on the code wars um
if you don't know like if you're if
you're hitting flow and you feel like
you could actually solve it sure keep
going but if you've just been like
staring at it googling have no idea
don't spend more than 20 minutes look at
the solution spend more time digesting
understanding the solution breaking it
down that's always going to be way way
way i don't understand why people don't
there's some things that i just feel so
duped
by all right folks come on back come on
back let's go over this together
there are just some things i just feel
so duped on that i just put so much time
and energy into in my life that then to
come out later to understand like that i
just did it so wrong
right and i i love when i find these
things out because like your life is
never the same
the first one for me was like
understanding that even though i had
done very well academically i actually
did not know how to learn i had a very i
have a very good short-term memory or i
used to until sarah quill destroyed that
but i had a very good short-term memory
and i was able to use that to get
through school very very very well but i
never actually learned how to learn i
didn't know anything about active recall
space repetition stuff would go in one
ear and not the other after i took the
test like i just never actually learned
how to learn so that was like a big
thing i was like how come this is
how come this is not taught
every and every university at every
middle school
it just seems really wrong to me then
the other thing to me is that when i was
first starting to do coding challenges i
used to do project
i can never say it right
euler project oiler i forget i always
say the name wrong i don't know um which
are like math related they're like code
wars
but they're
they're
all math related and so this is like 10
years ago
euler there you go yeah and um
i would do them i would get some of them
but i would just bang my head for hours
just like not knowing
like how to solve it and i would sit
there for hours and hours
and then somebody's like just look at
the solution and i was like just look at
the solution
you can do that like
you're allowed to just like google
solutions
right
and then i just looked at the solutions
and i've learned so much more
looking at solutions than i did from
banging my head against the keyboard i
used to literally sit there and then
literally bang my head on a keyboard
thinking that would do something when i
should just looked at the solution and
then did it again once i understood the
solution because now i've actually
learned it
i've done the space repetition because
i'm doing it again and when i see those
same patterns again i'm i'm like
let's just say that like
code i'm i'm talking to the code wars
folks right now i'm gonna i'm gonna add
i want them to add like a little line
that says like after 20 minutes look at
the solution all right um
that like there's those things that like
blow your mind all right let's take a
look at this together
all right
variables cool
you are getting ready to face brock for
the boulder badge you want three pokemon
on your team that have each evolved that
have each evolved at least once
you have bulbasaur which is at level
five and evolves at 16. caterpie which
is one involves at seven and we which is
at one and involves at seven as well
create three variables to store the
number of rare candies each of your
pokemon would need to evolve uh rare
candies increase your level by one and
then create a fourth variable called
total candies that sums all the rare
candies for you so let's go ahead and
create our
bulbasaur
candies
and we're going to set that equal to
all right they're at level 5
and they evolve at 16 so we could just
do like 16
minus five like if we really don't want
to do the math
if we don't want to do the math we could
just do that
all right let
um caterpie
hey thank you for the raid thanks for
bringing the crew along
how are y'all doing what are we all
working on
thanks for the raid
hey what's going on everybody
uh
right now we are working through
coding challenges that are all pokemon
themed so we're working through some
basics of programming variables
conditionals functions loops and then
they're gonna get the problems gonna get
a little bit more spicy we're gonna see
things like map and filter and uh some
some other fun things to do
thank you for the raid hope you're all
doing well i hope you all had a good
stream
thanks for coming through
uh for folks that are new we're running
a 30-week software engineering bootcamp
where you can learn everything you need
to get a job as a software engineer
welcome everybody
cool right so we had our bulbasaur
candies uh how about our caterpie
candies
cool
all right and so we set our caterpie
which is level one it involves at level
seven let's do seven minus one
and then let
our last one which is weedle
candies
equal and i think it's the same thing
that they evolve at seven and they're
currently at one and so there we go
alrighty
now the last thing we need is a is a sum
let's do let
total candies equal
and then we'll do our bulbasaur candies
plus our caterpie candies
plus
our weedle candies
all right that's good to me
and then
this way to do this see what we had to
do with it
finally create a four favorite multiple
candidates and sometimes all the
rankings let's just console.log to make
sure it's actually working uh so let's
go to console.log
total candies
let's go ahead and save it uh if this is
working it should be 11 plus 6 which is
17 plus 6 was just 23 so we should see
23 right
let's see
the console
refresh boom
23 into the console quick mask looks
like it's working to us got that
beautiful boulder badge
i am the proud owner of a boulder badge
from the 1998 pokemon world tour
i got my boulder badge on the first try
got my cascade badge on this first try
and i lost the tournament and i was very
sad
all right
i actually have like the like the
official badge like it's like it's like
that big i should put on my desk i'll
maybe i'll grab it during break
yeah
and i got the first
i have a legit gen one mew
on a flash cart because the batteries do
die
and the official certificate of
authenticity
i know luxosaurus
all right next one
conditionals and functions all right you
have a charmander in your party
charmander can only battle if the
temperature is above zero degrees
celsius create one function that
converts fahrenheit to celsius and
another function it tells you whether or
not charmander can battle beautiful all
right so our first one we're going to
create like a function that converts the
fahrenheit to celsius so let's create a
function here
and we're going to call it uh far
height to
celsius
cool
fahrenheit to celsius
and we know we're going to take in a
temperature so it's going to say temp
because that's the temperature that's
going to come in
i don't like using just the word temp
though because it could mean like
temporary or something like that so i'm
going to say temp val
or temp i just probably spelled out
temperature there you go temperature
cool
what's wrong with this though
what's wrong with this function so far
yeah i did a capital f
in chat
i did a capital f it's not a constructor
function it's just a function no capital
f good guys good eyes good eyes all
right so let's go ahead and then say
let's create a variable called converted
val
um
or let's call it convert it to
cell
and we're going to set this equal to and
then what's the anybody know the math
what's the math if i put the math in
in in chat for me math and chat for me
please
temperature minus 32 times five knives
okay
so we'll do temp
temperature
uh minus minus 32
and then we're gonna times it by five
divided by nine well it looks good all
right so now we have our function
uh that can
[Music]
do the conversion
but we haven't done anything with the
converted value what should i probably
do with this converted value
i want to return it because what i'm
going to do is i want to call this
function
and get the converted value so i'm going
to return
convert it to celsius and that way i
know that this function spits out the
converted value so i can pass in any
fahrenheit value
and get back a celsius value
cool
now the next function we have to create
is a function that tells you whether or
not charmander can battle
so let's go ahead and create a function
here
i'm gonna call it can
charmander
battle
cool
and so can charmander battle
and
we should let's see
it's really
conversation no question it tells you
where that charmander can battle so i
think we're gonna need the actual
we're gonna need the actual value right
like when we probably when we call can
charmander battle we should pass in like
the current temperature
so current
temp right so we should pass in the
current temperature
right to figure out uh what the current
temperature is we'll have to call the
other function to convert it but at
least we're passing it in so now we have
the
current temp let's get the the
the like new value so like let's get the
convert it
and set it equal to
fahrenheit to celsius and we're going to
pass in current
temp so my goal here
right my goal here
is i am calling
this function here
in line here so whatever gets spit out
of this function
is what converted is going to equal
right and so that's the idea the idea
here is that i have one function
whose sole job is to convert fahrenheit
to celsius
and it spits out that value
and then i'm calling that function
down here
with the current temp
so it should take whatever the current
temperature is i'll get that converted
value back it's stored inside of
converted
and the neat thing is
maybe eventually i want to create um
different
different characters that deal with
different values so maybe i can
eventually have like a celsius to
fahrenheit like i'm starting to separate
some of these these things out so i can
reuse them as needed all right so now i
should have the converted value
and the next thing i just need is i just
need to know whether or not charmander
can battle uh so i can just do a what
what can i probably do
yeah just a conditional
cool
so we'll say if
convert converted is greater than zero
if it's greater than zero then we know
charmander can battle
beautiful
else
charmander
cannot
battle cool
i think that looks good
we have the function chart can't turn
cancer our mandate battle we're calling
our converted function and then we're
just doing our conditional let's go
ahead and call it i did it ternary
definitely could do a ternary here
definitely doable
uh i'm just typing it out i think it's a
little bit more readable right now
all right
let's go ahead and call it can
charmander battle
and
zero degrees celsius is 32
degrees fahrenheit so let's pass in 31
because that should be charmander cannot
battle so let's go ahead and come back
here let's refresh
all right charmander cannot battle uh
and then let's do 33 because that should
be over
zero
let's go ahead and save
all right charmander can battle there we
go
we did see something interesting what's
something interesting that could happen
here
well you return true or false for candy
cane battle that's a cool idea
yeah if somebody throws in zero that's
not technically
it's not technically greater than zero
right so there is like this we have to
be
it does say above zero so i think we're
good right we don't account for like
zero at all
uh it does stay above zero degrees and
so we're good with this but yeah
something i did think about i'm like hmm
they throw in zero yeah
all right
cool
let's see this last one here
all right you have joined an underground
pokemon league in this league trainers
can use any number of pokemon
print to the console pikachu i choose
you x times where x is the number of
pokemon
the trainer you are battling has in
their party
i'd be totally down to start a pokemon
fight club
i've always wanted to do like really big
money games in pokemon
like big money games
like kind of like how like fighting game
community does big money games but like
on the line
yay
there we go
all right uh this is just i'm just gonna
use a simple loop here
uh i'm gonna call this function
under
it's underground one word or two words
underground
pokemon
league
and i'm gonna take in
uh party size
cool so party size and i'm just gonna
have a loop in here
and this loop i'm gonna start counting
at one
so i'm just gonna set up i for increment
we're gonna set it at one
and we're gonna say while
i is less than
uh or equal to party size
cool party size we'll go up by one
and then all we want to do is to the
console log
print
pikachu i choose you
cool let's just throw that in there
looks good
let's do
um
a party size of six
underground pokemon league let's throw
in six and let's see if this works
never speed underground was my favorite
racing game that was a really good game
boom pikachu i choose you we can see it
printed six times the console it is
working
awesome
cool first try
alrighty
questions about these ones while we're
here
as always you'll get my solution code
after stream
why don't i have to do
partysize.length because i've already
passed in it as a number
maybe maybe if we passed it in as an
array
uh so maybe let's see maybe if we pat
like if we passed in their party as an
array maybe things would be different
right but this i just passed in as a
number i didn't really clarify if it was
like a number or
an array but let's let's just say they
passed in their
their value as an array
um so i'm just going to comment out this
one here
and let's call it again
underground pokemon league and let's
just pass in an array of pokemon
uh bulbasaur
[Music]
uh we had what was
the ones we had up top
caterpie
and weedle
all right so now they have a party of
three
uh what's the only thing we have to
change for this to work
let's do there's only one change we have
to make here for this to work
yeah we can just add dot length here
there we go
and now we'll see that there are three
values inside of this array so
partysize.length would be uh 3
and this would run three times let's
confirm that that is true
boom there we go now
this is one of those things
that i want you all to do
when someone folks ask me leon what do
you do when what do you really do when
you're doing code wars this is what i do
with my code wars
especially if i did like if i didn't
know how to solve the code war and i'm
looking at the solution i look at this
solution and i go hmm
what if it was an array
and then i fixed it so that the array
works
what if
what if there was
what if there were spaces
right like like like that idea of like
playing with this code right like
you've seen the solution part of that
analysis should be to like play with it
break it ask questions about it and and
tweak things and try getting those
tweaks to work that's part of the
analysis that i do uh airasi said prep
yes we'll cover
when we get to our hunt classes uh we're
gonna talk about prep you already saw if
you were in hello rufio's stream the
prep method for working through the code
wars and that's for like when you're in
an interview scenario i do prep until my
eyes bleed um you know
but we'll get there
cool
keep pushing folks we got more badges to
get this evening definitely got to get
to that cascade badge
all right chat what are arrays
a prep is a system that i use for
working through all of my coding
challenges
we're not there yet because we're kind
of just starting code wars and we're
getting into it but once we get to the
hunt like the like how we
start thinking about getting a job um
we're going to spend more time on it
and we'll cover prep we'll cover star
we're going to cover all these different
uh things that we need to do to do well
in interviews
yeah razer toaster is exactly
our toasters
uh a data structure stored
as an order collection what
oh
it just stores stuff and there's an
order to the thing that is stored uh in
arrays the thing that's tricky is that
they start counting the stuff at zero
right start counting them at zero
so that means we have indexes that start
at zero and it is an ordered collection
of stuff we like to joke and think about
bill gates toaster because we can put
anything into bill gates toaster and it
always generates new slots as we need
them beautiful
alrighty declaring arrays there are two
major ways to create arrays
one you see here using
literal notation where you just use the
square brackets chat what is the other
way
that you can
yeah we can use a constructor that could
build a race too
cool the funny thing is i don't hear the
knock for whatever reason
i don't hear it on my output but i know
that you all hear it which is
interesting
i love one i love when stream finally
like when you all finally figure out
certain things because that knocks it on
there for a long time i don't think
anybody's really used it before but now
now everybody's gonna be using it
cool
so we got our little notation
when we declare our arrays we can put
values into the array and we can put any
type of value we learned about so far
any data structure so far whether it's
strings booleans numbers other arrays
when we start working with our apis we
saw objects with arrays with objects
inside of arrays like it gets wild folks
anything can go in there
with our arrays we start counting the
elements based off of their indexes of
zero so we would have our first second
third fourth element but if we care
about the slot that they're in those
slots have indexes and we start counting
those at zero so zero one two 3
and we can use those indexes to pull
stuff out of the array so if i ask for
the zeroth element i would get zebra if
i asked for the first element i would
get undefined why would i get undefined
if i asked for
index one in the new array
yeah there's nothing there there's an
empty value so that is undefined
beautiful
not only can we get stuff out but we can
put stuff in so i can go ahead and use
that index to put something into the
array so here i'm putting string bob
into the array beautiful
we can use the length property like we
just saw to figure out how many elements
are in the array remember
the length counts one through whatever
so you don't have to worry about
the index being at play there however if
you want to use the length to get an
index you're always going to be off by
one that's why we see a lot of that
minus one because we want to account for
starting at zero
all right we can also iterate through
our arrays we saw a four each where the
four h will run once for each element in
our array it's going to pop off the
element and its index
tint
pops off its element and its index and
some of the other similar methods do the
same thing where they can pop off the
element and its index hint pool
and now we have a lovely cascade badge
to earn but before we adventure no peaks
no peaks
before we adventure to get our cascade
badge uh it is time to take a break
alrighty folks thank you for putting in
the work thank you for being here thank
you for pushing your mind thank you for
getting in this review
trust me it pays off in the long run
they get this repetition in so let's go
and take our break well deserved five
minutes on the clock
if you're new around here if you came
with the raid we like to be healthy we
take our breaks to the top of the hour
please if you're able get up move around
hydrate kiss some babies play with some
dogs look out your window get your eyes
focused on something that's not the
screen i'm gonna run ads so folks
actually take a break
appreciate y'all for being here
all right let's do this thing
so
you
do
um
you're
all right folks come on back
got a a cascade badge to uh
to win here
this dominoes for you hey i appreciate
you thank you
all right folks come on back
what's your favorite pokemon generation
uh i i'm gonna get some hate for this
but it's hands down
sixth gen
x and y
x is the best pokemon game ever i i'm
not a i'm not a i'm not a i'm not a
playing for story type of person
i'm i'm i'm there to take names and and
win some some badges type of person you
know and pokemon x had the best online
of any pokemon game ever in pokemon x
you had the pss system
where somebody in japan
would like
walk by
you could tap their name you could trade
with them you could battle them and then
work all the way up to them being on
your friends list so that you could talk
trash to them while you battled them
that hands down is the best
the best system pokemon has ever had
but yes all right let's get into it
folks
we have this lovely cascade badge to to
get uh this one's gonna be a little
spicier if we go ahead and look in here
go to cascade badge
index.html we have a javascript file
i don't think i fixed the image let me
check to make sure the image works or
not
no it's broken let's fix the can
somebody figure out why the cascade
badge is not loading
why is the cascade badge not loading
i spelled it wrong yeah if we look this
is this is
cascade
that's my no i'm not gonna say anything
uh
cass
cast cast day cass cast day
test caste there we go let's put a kick
cast day
save that let's go back to make sure it
works
oh that a lovely cascade badge
all right i always got to be careful two
things
uh one thing we haven't really i haven't
i haven't done it to y'all yet but
eventually i'm gonna forget the script
tag remember if you want
if you want the
if you want your javascript to run you
got a link to it and so you always have
the script tag at the bottom but i can't
always guarantee it's going to be there
so if you're troubleshooting you're like
leon i tried it all it's not working
make sure
it's linked
okay just telling you
all right if we look at this cascade
badge we got um some arrays problems
we got some some doozies of a problem
here so i'm gonna put 10 minutes on the
clock for this one this is a lot of time
because i want you to go as far into it
as you can feel free to skip around if
you need to remember go as far as you
can in these 10 minutes and then we're
gonna go over it together
all right
we'll go over it together
we'll talk about some of the homework
we'll talk about a project i want you to
work on and then i think this might be
the first time we actually end early
alright folks go at it 10 minutes
can i get the badges oh let me see if i
can grab them real quick
right back
me
silky shared in the ask leon channel i
would love to see the game you've been
working on
new horizons this is all harris heller
stream beats
i'm actually in a pokemon fight club in
discord
first rule of pokemon fight clubs we
don't talk about pokemon fight club
jeez
luzix said what are some specs to be
looking for affordable laptop to code
with um there is a subreddit called
suggest a laptop
just go there follow their rules
paste the things they need and they will
literally find you the best laptop for
your preferences at your budget
they're they're beasts with it so i
would definitely go there suggest a
laptop on reddit
a woven this is the cascade badge you
have about five minutes and then we're
gonna go over it together
uh in a tech interview what queue would
their javascript questions fall under it
really does depend i've seen eight
sevens and sixes quite frequently i
think once you feel comfortable with
sixes you're ready to like you can start
interviewing beforehand but once you're
comfortable with sixes you're ready for
a lot of interviews
not all of them but a lot remember a lot
of our folks even have technical
interviews
uh i don't understand question three
what you're looking for and we're gonna
go over in depth is
does the index like can the index go
into that number like is it like can you
can't divide by zero so it doesn't count
but one one can go into six uh two can
go into 32
3 can't go in the 82 4 can't go into 9
but 5 can go into 25 so that's what
you're looking for
we're gonna don't worry we're going to
break that down if that's too
soon
yeah i think i think it's really
important my recommendation for a laptop
is hold out as long as you can until you
get a job because the job will most
likely give you a laptop anyway
so i'm a big fan of getting an old
chromebook the crispy nuggets at it an
old chromebook
put linux on it and that's enough for
web development uh an old thinkpad an
x220 x230 put gnu linux on it and called
a day
that's that's enough to get you through
learning um you don't have to spend more
than 150 if you need a laptop uh to do
well
get a job and then they'll give you a
better one
you need a laptop for interviews uh
nowadays yes because a lot of them are
still remote
or something that you can write code on
i should say
you attended a virtual conference and
won a macbook pro that's awesome
[Laughter]
montana said or buy it from costco and
return way later shh
we've talked about we've talked about
the best buy loner program here on
stream before
well i have not yet but i will
it has been a while my apologies
that's awesome cloud
so the so if you're a best buy rewards
member you get a month
and then if you're like a like the next
tier up it's like 60 days
um
yeah
costco is probably better because they
they take it back whenever
be careful you're gonna get another
email yeah i'm releasing too many of the
secrets this evening
uh worldsworth you can do anki totally
in the browser you don't need to
download anything for anki just use the
web version
yeah
dragon said after two weeks they try to
stick you every stocking fee be careful
there are certain things that do over
stocky beats that's that's why that the
best buy loaner program used to be way
better
but they kind of caught on yeah
costco is 90 days for electronics that's
good to know yeah this is not financial
advice folks make sure you read the
policies
i'm down cloud i think definitely by the
end of this cohort it'd be great to have
all right 20 more seconds we're going to
go over it together
alrighty come on in come on in
let's go over this together folks
all right
so folks asked
here is
my
competition badge
or the
nintendo training tour
in 1999
yes yes believe it or not
uh i don't know where i actually have
two boulder badges
so this is
the boulder badge
and i don't know where my other boulder
badge or the cascade is because we move
some stuff around
i'll probably find it take another break
but
um so i have the cascade badge and then
folks
this is
it the mega memory card
that has the gen one mew
i have the official certificate of
authenticity that matches it as well i
don't know where that's at the moment
but i have it
this is like
all right
and it's backed up on an original gen
blue cart with a fresh battery
i'm gonna say
all right my flexosaurus is coming out
people people ask me leon is pokemon
thing is this new for you i'm like nah
son
i've been in the pokemon since this this
this is this is this is og pokemon stuff
right here
toys r us
sent out a vhs tape
hyping up the
the the franchise before it even came
out
before the franchise even came out
before toys r us even had anything
they had this vhs tape that they sent
out
and i used to watch that vhs tape every
single day and be like this shit's gonna
be amazing and then
i couldn't
i didn't get the game when it came out
because didn't have funds like that
but
johnny i'm not going to say their last
name they let me borrow their pokemon
blue
i i
i looked that's the only time i ever
talked wild to my mama because she was
like leon time to go to bed and i'm like
ah i gotta catch i gotta catch the
pokemons as i was like sitting
underneath the lamp in my living room um
so yeah shout out to johnny johnny c
i'll just say that you're a real one and
then eventually i got my pokemon blue
and it's been
in a wrap
alrighty erase your pokemon party order
which is a list of pokemon right which
is a list of pokemon
has been leaked to misty
i forget when i write this stuff
please create a function that reverses
your list and prints it out to the
console so when you're battling you
don't want people to figure out your
your pokemon order and so misty has
figured out our party order and we have
to reverse our our our list of names
so i'm hearing some words here i'm
hearing list of names
so far what we learned in javascript
when we hear like a bunch of names what
am i going to use here
yeah i'm going to use an array so i'm
going to have a function that takes in
an array
and i'm going to want to return
the or so i'm going to want to print
this to the console the reverse of the
array and some folks in chat already saw
it so let's go ahead
let's create a function
we're going to call this reverse
party
and we're going to take in our party
list
and we're going to return the reverse of
it return
and we could probably just do it like
this party list sorry i keep saying
return we want to we want to console.log
it
console.log
and we want to console.log
partylist.reverse
reverse reverse
cool
so that should take whatever the array
is and reverse it now a lot of folks
kind of get tripped up with the reverse
because uh reverse is a what method it's
a method that works with what
every body clap your hand
yeah it works with a raise and so some
folks get tripped up because they're so
used to doing split reverse join that
they don't realize that it's not a
string method it's an array method that
split method is what takes the string
and turns it into an array for you to
reverse if you're doing that palindrome
question that shows up all the time on
cold wars
i keep writing retards i'm so used to
code words me too yeah comes in a lot
all right so let's go ahead and make
sure this works let's go ahead and call
our function
reverse party and we're going to pass in
an array and so let's pass in an array
of pokemon bulba
charmander
pika
chu and
butter
for butter free
there we go
all right so let's save this and let's
go and open this one in the browser make
sure it works
and i'm going to put the console i'm
going to refresh
i don't see anything oh
i see butter pikachu bulba there we go
cool we called it
and we saw that butter was first then
pika then char than bulba so it has
actually reversed our array
of
pokemon
cool
i did the exact same array that's wild
all right so that first one done so
let's keep pushing here
all right
create
all right given two integer arrays
a and b
both of length of greater than one
create a program that returns true if
the sum of the squares of each element
is strictly greater than the sum of the
cubes of each element in b
i thought this was pokemon i thought we
were playing here
all right let's take it let's read this
out a little bit see if we can get what
the heck's going on here
all right
leon no math also leon this mess
we gotta so so the reason why i gotta
mix some of these in i gotta pepper them
in is because this is the [__] you're
gonna see during interviews right
the reason why codewars is so helpful
is not that you get better at
programming not that you can like write
code more efficiently but it's the fact
that you can actually understand when
these types of questions are being asked
to you
because the first i don't know say 100
code wars that you do
it's really the phrasing that gets you
right it's really the phrasing that can
get you and in an interview
right in an interview where they're
saying this nonsense to you and you're a
little hype you're a little i don't know
a little nervous right it can just it it
happens to a lot of us you'll just kind
of glaze out right and so you want to
get comfortable with these phrases with
these terms with the way of the
questions being asked to you and that's
where code wars really can can help
eventually we'll get the lead code of
course but the the phrasing is something
you pick up by doing these code wars
over and over again so it's not a shock
to the system when you see it if you saw
this question and you were like
that means you need to do more code
worse
you know
it will help with that shock to the
system the phrasing is definitely
probably the worst part
cool
all right given two integer arrays when
somebody says integer arrays what does
that mean
true integer arrays is what
what am i just saying there yeah an
array of numbers so i have two arrays
that are full of numbers one is going to
be called a the other is going to be
called b
and they're going to both have at least
one number in it so all this means is
that we have two array of numbers one
called a one called b they're both at
least greater they both have at least
one number in them
and we're going to create a program
that returns the sum
of all the squares of each number in a
so we're going to add a bunch of numbers
together to get a sum but we're squaring
each number that was in the array and
then adding it to the sum
right so
if we had
an array
that had two numbers in it
right two and three
we would square
the two we would square the three
right so this would be four
and this would be nine and then we would
add them together and we would have 13.
right so we're we're going to sum
all the numbers but after we squared
them
so whenever i know i'm going to keep
like a sum
i'm doing something over and over again
uh what am i going to use here what's
the method that screams out in your mind
as soon as i say i got to sum something
yeah reduce comes to my brain
i think i'm going to do two reduces
one reduced for the squares and the
first array
and
another
reduce for the cubes on the second array
and then i'm just going to compare them
so i actually think this is just going
to be
uh i think i could probably like just
create a function here
uh we're going to call this
compare
square
and
cube
and we know we're going to pass in two
arrays
and they've already given us the name
for these arrays or the names of our
parameters a and b
and i'm just going to return
the reduction of a and b and just throw
a greater sign in there i'm going to
have this greater sign so i'm going to
i'm going to have the a reduction so a
dot reduce on this side and i'm going to
see if that's greater than the b
reduce on this side that's it so i'm we
have to fill in what's in the reduce but
that's the idea a will reduce down to a
sum
and b will reduce down to a sum and then
i'm going to compare
if the a reduction is greater than the b
reduction
cool we know that our reduce takes in
two parameters we just kind of know that
syntax what are the two parameters that
we always have with the reduce chat
yeah we got our accumulator
and our current value
and then all we're going to do is add to
that accumulation so we know we're going
to keep adding to that accumulation
but what are we going to add to this
accumulation what are we going to keep
adding to this accumulation
it's not just the current number what
are we doing to that current number
yeah we're squaring that current value
so this one we're squaring it
so there are tons of ways to square we
could do math dot pow
and take in the current value and say do
it to the second power
uh in this case we could just do
uh c times c
that would work that'd be a square right
and we can also do the other shorthand
that we learned i think a couple classes
ago of the square the
that shorthand for square so astric
asterisk
2 is shorthand for squaring
um
and then just to be safe i'm going to
put my zero at the end here
and that zero is just gonna it's just
gonna help me with what
just it's just helping me if there's a
there's a certain what
yeah it helps with the initial value
specifically of the accumulator so we
don't deal with is it a string is it a
number right it gives us initial value
to start with it helps us with the type
conversion there's a lot of goodies that
we can get by by having that number
there to start so we're just going to
put it there
um and we should be good
especially since we know that we're
adding to the accumulator
cool
and then the second reduce is almost the
exact same thing
we have another accumulator and another
current value
and we're going to add to this
accumulator but this time it's going to
be a what it's not going to be a square
it's going to be a what
a cube exactly put our zero there to
protect ourselves and this looks good i
think we can kind of make this smaller
just to see it on one line
i definitely i'll make it bigger again i
just want to have it all one line as we
talk about it
a little bit bigger
there we go yeah so for now have it
online but we'll make it bigger in a
second so
the idea here
is we can eventually call this function
uh compare square and cube and we can
pass in two arrays
and i'm gonna pass in two arrays that
are exactly the same i was gonna do two
two two just to make my math easier and
two two two
here all right so let's let's break this
down
i did not study it off my break no no no
this is just code wars tomfoolery here
let's take a look
let's walk through it we'll we'll
this we wouldn't be able to see the
result on this one so let's just talk
through it first all right
so this first array
this two two two array
falls into a
wherever i see a
it's that first
array so here's this first array a
and we're running on a we're running a
reduction of it we're reducing it and so
reduce always returns what
reduce returns what
a singular value right it returns a
singular value so it reduces all the way
down into one value and so we know out
of this reduction will be a singular
value
right and so what we're going to do
is we are going to
start off with an accumulation that we
are going to start
adding to
so the very first time this runs
r2
is the first value of c
and we've gone ahead and created an
accumulator
that starts off at what
zero we have our accumulator starting
off at zero we're gonna pass in two
all right
so
zero plus
two
squared
so that's what two squared is what
four
so we add four to our accumulation and
so now our accumulation is no longer
zero it is now four
and then we run again
we pass two n is the second iteration of
c
we're going to do it again where we
square 2 which is 4 but now we're adding
4 to the previous 4
and we are at
8.
the very last time this runs we pass in
2 again
we're going to square 2 again we add
that 2 to our accumulation
and we're no longer at 8 we are at 12.
so this first value
this whole reduction reduces all the way
down to what
right reduces all the way down to 12.
great
now let's look at the other side
we have b
reduce so now we're going to call if we
see b here we see that b
is the second array
wherever i see b it's that array
so it's the same thing as if i had
plugged that array in here it's the same
thing as 2 2 2 being here right we're
reducing that array instead of having it
there
instead of it having there we have the
parameter of
b
all right now the very first time this
runs our accumulator is at zero
and we're gonna take our two
we're to plug it in and 2 to the third
gives us what
2 times 2
is 4
4 times 2 is 8. all right so our first
value is 8
and we add that to the accumulation so
our accumulation
is eight after the first run
then we know we're gonna pass in two
again
that's another eight so plus eight we're
at sixteen
and then the last two gets entered in a
c
we wind up generating another eight
adding eight to 16 and we're at 24.
now we can do it on the abacus if we
need to
so we can go ahead and start over again
and we're going to go ahead and reduce
our
all right
so
this is
it's an abacus you know why it's an
abacus
because in the west we are taught how to
count wrong
here let me let me demonstrate to you
uh that you probably count wrong
when i say
seven plus five
what do you do
a lot of folks are gonna do this
right there lockwood's gonna do that a
lot of folks in our brain will be like
all right seven
plus five so that's that's we chop the
five into a three that gives us a ten
and then we have the two left over so we
add the two to the ten right that's just
like the wrong way to think about math
like that's so much extra work to do
very simple like math but that's just
like how we grow up being taught math we
are literally taught math wrong
uh so i'm working on learning how to do
math correctly
and that's why i have an abacus on my
desk
i want to think about numbers in a
better way
abacus class once i get better at it i
may be
all right so this was this is hard if
you haven't seen reduce yet
uh it is difficult if you are still kind
of learning some of the basic methods
we've given a lot of homework that had
these methods already in it and you're
going to see these over and over in code
wars you have
to know these methods reduce just has to
be something that you're comfortable
with you can use over and over and over
again and so
make sure if you're not comfortable with
reduce
you go to the mdn you spend time going
through it you make sure that you then
practice your reduced methods on code
wars you can type in reduce and find
problems that just use reduce and
practice them over and over and over
again
right
like wait how do we count leon you can't
leave us like that uh maybe on maybe
during office hours we could i can
demonstrate some some quick maths to you
all right
so what we did here is we did two
reductions
right we reduced a
to a sum we reduce b to a sum we are
seeing the lovely
um
shorthand syntax the square and cube and
let's go ahead and make sure this
actually works
got a console log it because we we
didn't really do anything with the value
there we go all right
let's save it
let's go back let's refresh
all right and it's false right it makes
sense that it's false right that the
the cube
would be
um
that sorry that the square
would be greater than the cube we know
that that's false so it worked right we
know that a
squared
is always probably going to be less than
b squared when it's the it is going to
be less when it's the same exact numbers
right that's all
now we could start mixing it up we could
start throwing in other numbers here
right like we could keep this two two
two but make this like four
four
five
all right save that
and then that's definitely true right
the the bigger number squared is better
than the or sorry bigger than the
smaller numbers cubed
cool
all righty
next one here actually let's just let's
just breathe i just want to say one more
second on this one and then we'll move
on
so we have the idea here this reduce the
reduce all it does and if you're if
you're struggling with reduce
just know it's the same thing every
single time i think that's the big thing
with these with these methods is that we
think that it's it's the trick or you're
going to get got no it's the it's the
exact same thing every single time
right and so there's always going to be
an accumulator there's always going to
be a current value
right
right is always going to be greater
there's always been accumulators always
going to be a current value what you do
to that accumulator like do we add these
values do we subtract them multiply them
divide them that's what can change so
what we decided to do here is that we
cube every number sorry we square each
number and then add it to this pile of
numbers right so we add it to a sum we
have a sum that's being kept here so we
keep adding numbers summing summing
summing over here we did the exact same
thing we're keeping a sum but we're
adding the cubes each time cube add
cubed key bad cube ad
yeah
should i be up creating a new repository
each time i upload my daily code wars
challenges no you only need like one
repo
and then what i recommend is once you
have that one repository just create a
new js file and push your js file yeah
so the idea here is that you want to
have like each time you do a code wars
put it into a js file and then push that
to github so you get those green squares
when recruiters look at your at your
group at your github profile and they
see those green squares boom good to go
awesome
today i really felt like a software
engineer hey i'd love to hear it
i know a lot of folks are from the
ketchup crew so this might still be a
little bit new don't worry spend more
time on the analysis than you do
on trying to solve next one
all right return a new array
sorry return a new array
consisting of elements which are
multiples of their own index
in an input array all right so what
we're going to have here is we're going
to have an array of numbers
and what we want to figure out
is
if that number is a multiple of its
index so let's take a look at that let's
try to break down what it's being asked
and then we'll kind of read into the
rest of the problem here so
in this example
we have 22
negative 6
and 25.
if we put the indexes under them
right
why'd i do that
boom there we go
uh if we put the indexes under them we
would have 0
and 5. so now we want to figure out
is are these
indexes
able to divide evenly into the number
right so like can these numbers go in
well we can't divide by zero so we're
just gonna we're gonna we're that's
that's a no
can one go into six
yeah one can go into six that's a good
one
can two go into 32
yeah so that's a good one
and 3 go into 82
not evenly no so it's not a multiple
right 3 is not a multiple of 82 because
it can't go in evenly that that's not a
good one
can four go into nine nah
can't go not evenly so it's not a
multiple
and can five go into 25
uh yes it can and it can evenly so
that's a good one
whenever you're trying to solve these
challenges
now with that attitude uh you have to
like play with the values they give us
there's a reason why code wars gives you
these test cases
even if i have no idea how to solve it i
still play with the numbers and see if i
can figure out a pattern right let's see
if i can figure out a pattern and a lot
of times just by walking through the
test case i go oh that's what that meant
and that's how i figure out what to
actually do so always play with the test
cases that they give you um because they
can be a huge yeah exactly a huge hint
uh as to how to go about solving the
problem by working through these test
cases i now kind of have a better idea
oh when they say multiple they mean can
the number go into it evenly and so
i know a way that i can check to see if
a number can be divisible evenly what
can we use there what could we use
um to see if it's divisible evenly
yeah modulus exactly
some of the instructions are vague
exactly and that's why we do code wars
so much is that we get used to these
vague instructions these these things
that are kind of weird right and we get
more and more comfortable with that
terminology don't feel bad if the
terminology doesn't make sense until you
put in that work with code words that's
why we do it
cool
um
cool so we did that we know that 1 goes
in evenly two goes in evenly i goes in
evenly we only want those three values
so since i only want those three values
right
this is what those three values what
what methods could i use here to just
give me those three values
yeah this is like a good candidate for
filter for me i think a filter is really
good here and so
all i'm going to do
is filter out the values where the index
can divide evenly into the element right
like 1 divides evenly into 6
2 divides evenly into 32 5 divides
evenly into 25 so i'm just going to
filter out the elements
where the index uh can go into evenly
and so the cool thing about filter is
it's going to make this it's going to
make this problem pretty simple if you
know what filter gives you so let's go
ahead and create a function here
is i'm going to call like is multiple
right
and we're going to pass in an array
and we're just going to return
our array.filter now
when filter runs
what does filter grab as it runs
excuse me
it grabs the element the index and the
array
all right the element the index and the
array but if i want the element the
index and the array i need what for the
element the index in the array i need
what for the index sorry the element the
index and the array what do i need if
i'm going to grab the element the index
and the array
i need those parameters exactly
so i can just go here i only i don't
need the array i just need the element
in the index so i'm just going to do e
and i e for element i for index if i
wanted to i could also grab the array
but i don't really need it for this
example so i'm going to grab the element
and the index
and then i am going to just do my
modulus math that we should feel a bit
comfortable with now
so i'm going to do e mod
i
and if that's equal to 0 then i know
that i went into e evenly
right
thanks pierce
i i'm looking for i to go into e evenly
so let's let's run these numbers and see
how this works so the very first time
this runs let's say we're using this
array here
the very first time this runs what is e
chat what is e
yeah
e would be 22
and i would be
what would i be
yep it would be zero
and so this does not pass our check
uh zero does not divide evenly into
twenty two
uh we we run into some issues with the
dividing by zero
right
and so we are going to
it doesn't pass the vibe check uh so
this does not get included
in the filter it's just not included
right it's just not included
cool let's look at the next one the next
time this runs
e is negative six
right so e would be negative six
and i would be
one because that's the index
the negative six and one
one
divides evenly into negative six so
that's going to be included in the
filter
right that'll be included in the filter
that element will be included in the
filter now remember
filter
returns a what what is filter return
what is filter return it returns an
array just like map returns an array
filter returns an array so if you pass
the filter you get added to this new
array so this new array that we're
creating
now has the negative 6 in it
great the next time this runs we're
going to grab 32
and it's index of 0 1 2. so 32 and 2 we
know that 2 divides evenly into 32 so
that means that 32 passes this filter
check
and goes into the new array that we're
creating
then we have 82 and
it's index of three
three does not go into 82 so it doesn't
pass right
right
doesn't pass this check and so it
doesn't get added to new array
then we have nine
and four
four does not go into nine evenly so it
does not pass this check nothing gets
added to the array and then the very
last one we have is 25
and five five goes into 25 evenly so it
passes this check
right passes this check
and then
25 is added to this array what we would
wind up returning
right what we wind up returning is this
array
this array
would get
returned
cool
could we have used map instead sure you
could have
um but i think filter is a little bit
more applicable here because we are
trying to filter out values right
we are trying to filter out values
you're going to find you can really kind
of overlap a lot of these methods if you
wanted to but it's kind of like a
semantic argument right we are literally
filtering out stuff so we should
probably use filter
cool now remember we we had homework
on all these methods if you're if you're
a little little lost here make sure you
go back to those array methods homeworks
that are in the following materials and
then this is practicing code wars and
like i said i don't think all these had
to click tonight i think maybe some of
these you might have been able to get
but it's about being exposed to them
understanding what's going on spending
some time on the analysis so you can
start to kind of digest it and the array
cardio yeah that was pretty helpful too
cool
all right last one here
given an array of integers as strings
and
numbers
return the sum of all the array values
as if they were all numbers return your
answer as a number
so
i know i'm getting a sum of a bunch of
numbers
right i'm getting a sum of a bunch of
numbers what method should be
going off in your brain when you see a
sum of numbers
from an array
yeah reduce exactly reduce should be you
should be seeing reduce reduce reduce
reduce reduce reduce alright so let's go
and try this
so we're gonna go and create a function
here
and we're gonna call this
um
some of array values
uh yeah let's just call it sum
of
values
well we know we're taking in an array
and we are going to return it so we're
going to return the reduction
of our array oops sorry reduction of our
array we know that our reduction always
has right our reduction always has an
accumulator and a current value
we know that we're adding to the
accumulator because it's asking for a
sum
return the sum so i immediately just
know this is just something i'm not even
thinking right here i'm just saying all
right accumulator plus right not even
thinking just adding to the accumulator
and we're going to turn the sum of all
array values as if they were all numbers
so that means we're probably going to
have some values that are not numbers so
let's go ahead and call this real quick
and then we'll finish it
sum of values and let's pass in an array
we'll pass in like five
three
two
and one
right
so
let's save this let's just add the
current value to the accumulator
and let's see what we have working let's
just see let's just see what happens
right i'm going to comment out this one
up here just so we don't see that run
and i'm gonna comment this one out here
so we don't see that run
let's just have a simple reduce here
and let's see what happens
uh ideally we know that five plus three
is eight plus two is ten plus one is
eleven so we should see 11
right let's just see what happens
what i call it
sum of values
oh i didn't finish my reduction reduce
forgot my uh
my parentheses
all right let's save it let's go back
let's refresh
all right
unexpected token
line 27 let's see what we got
what am i missing folks
oh i didn't console log it
oh and i added an extra when i didn't
need it there we go
all right there we go let's save this
let's console log it
fourth try
all right so in the console we see 5
when it should have been
11.
all right
so what's happening here
yeah we're getting that concatenation in
the house
concatenation is happening so what do we
want to do with current value what are
we going to make sure that that is
what do you want to make that it would
make sure that that that is a what
the number so let's go ahead and use the
number method here
all right so now all of our values will
be treated as numbers let's go ahead and
save this
let's go ahead and refresh
what
hold on wait a minute
all of our values are numbers now why am
i still getting the concatenating
happening
um
yeah
the start value
since this is still starting with a
string
what is it setting the accumulator to to
start with
what does the accumulator starting with
starting as a string
so our accumulator is starting as a
string so we need that that savior
that is the zero
so now we will ignore that this is
string five the accumulator will start
off as a number
and um
should be good
there we go now we got our lovely eleven
seven try
cool
so we got to remember that that zero can
really save your butt down the line
um
should we go like
should we go like full code wars brain
so we should be we should never go full
cold wars should we go full cold wars
all right let's let's go full cold wars
it's just r
all right
there we go
okay i think we just went full code wars
here folks let's see let's see if this
uh
this works
oh i didn't i didn't change it
uh let's change it to s
boom we got our 11. full code wars
[Laughter]
oh boy
when you spend a half an hour sorry when
you spend 20 minutes trying to solve
something your solution is like 40 lines
long and then you open up the code wars
and it's this
and you're like what the [__]
look at like you look at you
you're like
you look at like your 40 lines and
and you look at their like
one line and they look back at you like
every time that's every single time on
code warriors
to this day this happens to me every
single time
all right let's talk about what happened
here
never go full code wars
i think i think what we have here is
still pretty readable i like it
um so
what do we have here
all right we have a lovely function
expression
uh we're using our arrow syntax
right leo are you gonna teach us regex
hell no don't use regex if you don't use
regex to solve codewords unless you
absolutely have to
even if the number one solution uses
regex don't use it because you're not
going to use that like in an interview
um knowing the basics might be helpful
but you should be learning how to solve
stuff not learning how to write regex
redrx is like a like a way of dealing
with strings and a bunch of other weird
stuff
um yeah but for code wars fight the urge
to use regex and solve them
uh naturally all right so let's see what
we got here we we named our function s
and we have our arrow function where
we're taking in an array
so the r is holding our array
we are reducing the array and whatever
happens to this reduction
is returned because we have a what chat
what do we have it what do we have when
we're using an arrow function
yeah it has an implicit return so we
don't need the return keyword whatever
this reduce reduces down into like it's
going to reduce down into
an individual value that value will be
returned implicitly we don't have to say
return there
inside of our reduction we have our
accumulator and our current value
and then we got some
javascripty stuff here
um this syntax
the plus in front of the variable does
what
what does that plus in front of our
variables do
you're an area operator hey
yeah it's the same thing as same thing
as wrapping it in number
right it makes it a number right and so
here i'm setting the accumulator to be a
number and then here i'm setting the
current value to be a number and
unlike everywhere else in javascript the
thing that really grinds my gears is
that this won't work because for this
very specific time and moment in
this very specific moment in time
space actually matters in javascript so
you got to have that space there
right
yeah
and so we have a wonderful
full code wars brain solution here
but i i don't don't don't ever go full
code wars write out stuff with good
variable names with good function names
that somebody else was to come along and
look at your code they know what the
heck is going on
alrighty folks
hope you had a good review i want to
talk a little bit about homework real
quick uh and then we're going to get
into some a thursday's class
super meaty folks get your rest come
prepared we got some heavy topics to get
through as we jump into oop
um so i want you to do one thing
uh before thursday's class normally i
always give homework that is due the
week later but i want to do one thing
between now and next class uh
in the code for today
there is this uh
lovely rainbow badge
and the rainbow badge is already set up
to use the pokemon api
right so what i want you to do between
now and thursday if you are able is i
want you to build something with the
pokemon api um somebody maybe enters in
a pokemon and you get their type back or
something just playing with it get get
something to work using this api
uh it's set up so that you can do it
it's actually set up to have nested
calls so i want you to play with it just
get your apis we don't have enough time
to get the apis today so play with the
api work
get something working bring it back
right
right i was really close to ending early
but we didn't so make sure you work on
the pokemon api between thursday's class
uh due next tuesday is some reading some
push reading if you want and a video to
watch
thursday we are going through
object-oriented programming so please
come rested ready to rock and roll and
we're gonna have a lot of fun kind of
pushing into it
all right let's do a raid uh the raid
i've been wanting to do for a very long
time uh they used to stream with us in
in the og category of science and
technology um but now they're in just
chatting
uh what they do is
they're a a phd candidate in chemistry
and they do like a bunch of like
cool
building out of an open source science
lab and a bunch of other really cool
stuff uh so please join me over at
freckled sciences
channel as always send them some love
give them some follows please they're an
amazing streamer i'll see you over there
have a wonderful night so happy that
you're back so excited that you're back
excited to keep pushing we got a lot of
good stuff baked in for thursday and
next week let's get it but let's raid
peace everyone
peace youtube